# DevOps_KUP_Learning-Day 2                                                                                                                         

# 28-Sept-2021

### 1. What is squashfs file system?
Squashfs is a compressed read-only file system for Linux. Squashfs compresses files, inodes and directories, and
supports block sizes from 4 KiB up to 1 MiB for greater compression. squashfs' contains the actual system image you 
are running. Removing it may be equal to removing your operating system.

### 2. What are /dev/loop and /dev/tty ?
**dev/loop*** are loop devices making plain files accessible as block devices. They have nothing to do with RAM 
occupation. They are typically used for mounting disk images, in your case apparently for Ubuntu Snap. 

**/dev/tty** stands for the controlling terminal (if any) for the current process (the process that uses "/dev/tty" 
in a command). To find out which tty's are attached to which processes use the "ps -a" command at the shell prompt
  (command line). ... For the shell process you're in, /dev/tty is the terminal you are now using.


### 3. What are Linux Signals?
A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal,
a process may take action.A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to
the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.

There are two types of signals:

**Maskable:** signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).

**Non-Maskable:** signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is 
signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.(man 7 signals - to show the explanation of signals).


### 4. Purpose of hidden files.
On Linux, hidden files are files that are not directly displayed when performing a standard ls directory listing. 
Hidden files, also called dot files on linux operating systems, are files used in order to execute some scripts or to 
store configuration about some services on your host.


### 5. How is ext4 fs faster ?
 Ext4 is also said to be slightly faster in sequential reads and writes.When it comes to file  checking, EXT4 is quicker
 because unallocated blocks of data are marked as such and are simply  skipped during disk check operations.
  
### 6. What is swap & swap memory?
**Swap** is a space on a disk that is used when the amount of physical RAM memory is full. When a Linux system runs out
of RAM, inactive pages are moved from the RAM to the swap space. Swap space can take the form of either a dedicated swap
partition or a swap file.

**Memory swapping** is a memory reclamation method wherein memory contents not currently in use are swapped to a disk to
make the memory available for other applications or processes. 

### 7. How to mount a file system?
**Mounting** is the act of associating a storage device to a particular location in the directory tree. 
For example, when the system boots, a particular storage device is associated with the root of the directory tree, i.e., 
that storage device is mounted on / (the root directory).```mount /dev/cdrom /media/cdrom``` After that command is run,
a file whose location on the CD-ROM is /dir/file is now accessible on your system as /media/cdrom/dir/file. When you've 
finished using the CD, you run the command umount /dev/cdrom or ```umount /media/cdrom```.


### 8. ZFS use case.
**ZFS** was created at Sun Microsystems and open-sourced as part of OpenSolaris. It has since been ported to other OSes,
including FreeBSD, Linux, and Mac OSX. ZFS is typically used on large storage servers and works well there. Many also 
boot their operating system from it. While I’ve been using it for some time now as the root filesystem on both my 
personal and work laptops running Linux,  I am going to walk you through what makes it worth using even on a laptop 
with a single disk. That said, the advice here will be geared towards desktops and laptops, and might not apply to a
server configuration.


### 9. What is an inode?
An inode is a file data structure that stores information about any Linux file except its name and data. 
That’s where inodes come in. While they don’t contain any of the file’s actual data, it stores the file’s metadata, 
including all the storage blocks on which the file’s data can be found. 


### 10. How to check which process running on which port?
We can use this command to check running port ```netstat -ano -p tcp``` or ```netstat -ltnp```(netstat command-line tool that displays network connections, routing
tables, and a number of network interface statistics.)

### 11. What is unix time sharing?
why we use UTS - A time shared operating system uses CPU scheduling and multi-programming to provide each with a small portion of a
shared computer at once. Each user has at least one separate program in memory.

Time-sharing, in data processing, method of operation in which multiple users with different programs interact nearly 
simultaneously with the central processing unit (CPU) of a large-scale digital computer. Because the CPU operates
substantially faster than most peripheral equipment (e.g., video display terminals and printers).



### 12. What are control groups?
Control groups (or cgroups) are a feature of the Linux kernel by which groups of processes can be monitored and have 
their resources limited.

### 13 What is the Namespace??

Namespace-“Namespaces are a feature of the Linux kernel that partitions kernel resources such that one set of processes
sees one set of resources while another set of processes sees a different set of resources.”

Types of Namespaces
1. User Namespace

2. Process ID Namespace

3. Network Namespace

4. Mount Namespace

5. Interprocess communication Namespace

6. UTS Namespace


###  14. Difference between sbin & usr/sbin ?
/bin : For binaries usable before the /usr partition is mounted. This is used for trivial binaries used in the very
early boot stage or ones that you need to have available in booting single-user mode. Think of binaries like cat,
ls, etc.

/sbin : Same, but for binaries with superuser (root) privileges required.

/usr/bin : Same as first, but for general system-wide binaries.

/usr/sbin : Same as above, but for binaries with superuser (root) privileges required.

### 15. Examples of awk, grep and sed.
***AWK***

Syntax- ```awk options 'selection _criteria {action }' input-file > output-file```

Example - ```awk '{print $1,$4}' employee.txt ``` For printing the 1 and 3 coloum.

***GREP***

Syntax - ```grep [options] pattern [files]```

Example - ```grep -i "UNix" geekfile.txt``` For Print the line which contain Unix word.

***SED**

Syntax - ```sed OPTIONS... [SCRIPT] [INPUTFILE...] ```

Exapmle- ```sed 's/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt``` To replace the unix with linux.
